[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
Cheryl Costa is a
military veteran
and was in the US Air Force
and the Navy, as I was.
And these days, she's a
journalist and UFO researcher.
Back in 2018, the
International UFO Congress
named Cheryl
Researcher of the Year.
And that is one heck
of an honor, Cheryl.
Welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>CHERYL COSTA:
Thank you, George.
>>NOORY: And thank you for
your service in the military.
>>COSTA: Thank you.
Thank you for yours.
>>NOORY: Dual Air
Force and Navy.
How'd you do that?
>>COSTA: They were rifting
people out of the Air Force
at the end of the war.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COSTA: And I
had an opportunity
to go for some very advanced
training in the Navy,
so I took the opportunity.
They gave us advanced
rank and special schools.
And it was a lot of fun.
>>NOORY: Good for you.
I loved the Navy.
I had a great time.
>>COSTA: I had a blast.
>>NOORY: Met some great
people and just had some--
I was one year short of
a Lieutenant Commander
when I retired.
And my unit got called up into
Desert Storm back in 1991.
>>COSTA: Oh, my.
>>NOORY: I had gotten out
six months before that.
>>COSTA: Oh, my.
>>NOORY: They came
back with the ribbons
and all kinds of things.
How did you get involved
in UFO research?
>>COSTA: Well, I'd
always been around UFOs.
My mother exposed me to my
first sighting when I was 12.
I had another one when I was 14.
And then, when I was
in the Air Force,
Christmas Eve 1971, in
Cam Ranh Bay, Vietnam,
I had a substantial one.
And so I was always on the
edges of it, reading about it,
and things like this.
Nothing heavy.
And I couldn't join any kind
of UFO groups or anything
because I had a clearance.
And the Air Force--
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>COSTA: --frowned
on you if you were
a member of any kind of group
like MUFON or something.
>>NOORY: So you
had to stay back.
>>COSTA: Oh, yeah.
So I had to wait for
all the years I was out
of the military, and then I
did 32 years at Lockheed Martin
in aerospace.
So I had to wait till
all that was done.
And once I was out from
underneath the strictures
of my clearance, I
was in the process
of finishing a 40-year-old
bachelor's degree
in entertainment writing.
And I was working
for a newspaper.
And one night somebody
had an article up.
I think it was cnn.com.
Had this little sidebar
story up in 2012.
It said, UFOs have been
declining since the 1980s.
Maybe they were always
just an urban legend.
And I thought that sounds
like misinformation.
And I went out to the National
UFO Reporting Center's
database, first time in my life.
>>NOORY: Peter Davenport's.
>>COSTA: Yeah, yeah.
And I got back into
some back pages,
got some year-end totals.
Dropped them into a
spreadsheet and watched
the curve go up like a rocket.
And I said, what memo
did the UFOs get?
The next evening I started
reading some of these reports
from people.
And for the most part, people
who were filing reports,
they just wanted to get
something off their chest.
They had something
profound happen.
They would say, we never
believed in this stuff
until this thing
happened the other night.
That type of thing.
And I saw all the sincerity.
So I started writing articles.
I wrote some articles up,
and I started pitching them
to editors and things.
And I got laughed
out of offices,
and chased out of
offices, and things.
>>NOORY: Until some point.
And then all of--
>>COSTA: Yes.
Until Larry Dietrich,
the Editor in Chief
at a weekly newspaper up
in Syracuse, New York,
"Syracuse New Times."
It's now defunct
about a year ago.
>>NOORY: As most are.
>>COSTA: As they are.
And he said, I'll
take a chance on you.
Try you out for a month.
And at the end of the month,
he called me up and said, just
keep doing what you're doing.
You're pulling huge page views.
And six months later, my digital
editor comes to me and says,
you've got a national audience.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>COSTA: And he came
to me at the end
of about-- at the
Christmas party and said,
you've got an
international audience.
Just keep doing it.
>>NOORY: It just kept
growing and growing.
>>COSTA: It just kept growing.
At one point, they told me I
had more page views than all
their columnists combined.
And so the articles I
wrote, I took the approach--
I couldn't tell you who,
what, when, where, why.
I couldn't tell you who
because the databases
don't tell you that.
And even when people
actually started
talking to me as a
reporter, my editor and I
agreed we weren't going to
out anybody because there's
a stigma, the UFO
brush, so to speak.
And if I could tell you
why and I could prove it,
I'd be getting a Nobel Prize.
But I could tell you
what, when, and where.
>>NOORY: Or a Pulitzer.
>>COSTA: Yeah, that too.
And so the bottom
line on it was I
took a very different
approach than most people did
with UFO articles.
I took the idea of let's
do it matter-of-factly.
I'm going to write about it just
like the fire down the street,
the burglary over in the
other neighborhood, the car
accident across town.
And we wrote about
it just that way.
And people received it
very well considering.
We were treating it with
a great deal of respect,
and just like another thing that
happens in the neighborhood.
>>NOORY: Cheryl,
investigator Paola Harris
was on "Beyond Belief" with me.
And this is her take
on the difference
between being a ufologist
and investigative journalist.
Even though you specialize
in investigating UFOs,
you don't consider
yourself a ufologist.
>>PAOLA HARRIS: No.
>>NOORY: You consider
yourself more
as an investigative reporter.
How come?
>>HARRIS: Well,
because a ufologist
has a preconceived notion
that you're dealing with UFOs.
And I'm an investigative
reporter, so in my case--
because we're going to
cover a couple of cases
that are controversial--
it's my obligation
to look at all of it.
In some of these cases,
like the Billy Meier case,
most of my colleagues
dissed the whole thing.
I have to see it
as a journalist.
I have to cover the story.
You can decide after if
it's real or not real.
But if you never
cover the story,
you don't have any
kind of concept.
You have gossip.
You have hearsay.
So everything in my
career I have ever done I
have covered in
person, on location.
And you've called me, I know,
boots-on-the-ground person.
I don't see how you could
do it any other way.
So as a journalist-- and Jaime
Maussan is like that, too.
He's got to cover everything.
For him to say, I
don't feel like doing
that, it doesn't sound real--
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>HARRIS: I mean,
how can you do that?
I don't feel like doing
that story because everybody
will criticize me.
That's not what journalists do.
They cover the
story and then you
decide, especially if you're
a scientist, if it's real.
>>NOORY: She's pretty right on.
Don't you think?
>>COSTA: Yes.
Yes.
Initially, I reported
mostly citing
work, that type of thing.
I'd crawl around into
Peter Davenport's data
and find nice
write-ups and things.
>>NOORY: And make
a story about it?
>>COSTA: And make
a story about it.
Because I couldn't tell you who.
If I said Joe and Susie were
laying on the hood of his car,
I made up Joe and Susie but
the facts about the sighting
were accurate.
So I did that.
And then gradually I started--
had to have something
to write about.
New York State
was my beat, but I
was allowed to write greater
nation articles as well.
So I started adding up things in
different cities and counties.
And what I found out was
National UFO Reporting Center
didn't collect county data.
And if MUFON did, it was
dependent upon the person
who was filling out the report.
>>NOORY: Critical.
>>COSTA: And usually
it was wrong.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>COSTA: So I added county
data electronically,
buying a commercial
mailing list.
I built county data into it.
And we started
generating unique data.
And that became a very
strong part of my reporting
about telling people what
was going on in counties,
and dispelling the
myths, like she said.
In New York State,
the myths were, well,
this is where all the sightings
are in New York State.
Well, I showed them that it
wasn't where all the sightings
were.
>>NOORY: They were
in other locations.
>>COSTA: Yes.
I'll give you an example.
Lake Erie-Niagara
Frontier was always
known as the Lake Erie effect.
And of course, the Hudson
Valley was always a hotbed.
But when it came down to
looking where these things were,
we didn't know that Rochester,
New York was the Lake Ontario
effect.
It had almost as many
sightings as Lake Erie.
And ground zero for
UFOs in New York State
is Suffolk County, Long Island.
It's double anyplace else.
>>NOORY: And who would know
that unless you looked?
>>COSTA: Unless you
looked, and unless you had
county information to look at.
Because sometimes a lot
of little communities
had sightings but it didn't
look like one big city or place
that had a lot of sightings.
And as soon as you
put county data to it,
suddenly all these
things added up.
And you could see
that that county
had huge amounts of sightings.
So Suffolk County and
Nassau County on Long Island
are in the top three.
>>NOORY: As I posed
the question to Paola,
is she an investigative
journalist or a ufologist,
I'll ask you the same.
Are you a field investigator?
Are you a journalist?
Are you a ufologist?
Or are you all of them?
>>COSTA: I consider myself
an investigative journalist.
And as far as the data
work that has grown out
of our research and
everything, I consider myself
a citizen scientist.
I'm not a boots-on-the-ground
field researcher.
>>NOORY: Like she is.
>>COSTA: Yeah.
I don't like ticks, I
don't like barbed wire,
and I don't like cow patties.
>>NOORY: OK.
And they're all in there.
>>COSTA: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: They're all there.
>>COSTA: But I also
come from the school
like you'd get in an
Indiana Jones movie.
It starts in the library.
We start researching it,
and then we fly terminals.
And there's a lot
to find in the data.
>>NOORY: Why don't you consider
yourself, Cheryl, a ufologist?
You study UFOs probably as
much, if not more than, anybody.
>>COSTA: Yes.
The term has become burdensome.
>>NOORY: That's it?
>>COSTA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: For you?
>>COSTA: Yeah, it has.
I mean, people do
call me a ufologist,
and I'm fine with that.
But I still look at it from
the standpoint of these days,
without a newspaper, I'm
an independent journalist.
And I'm an investigative
researcher.
>>NOORY: Since you've
been doing this,
what has been the most
dramatic case you've looked at?
>>COSTA: There was one
in upstate New York.
It was in February of 2013.
And it was up towards the
Schenectady, New York area.
>>NOORY: OK.
Know it well.
>>COSTA: People saw three
blue lights coming down
into an industrial park area.
They came down.
They became one object,
big blue object.
>>NOORY: It's amazing, isn't it?
>>COSTA: And as it
came down closer
to the highway, the utility
roads that were near it,
where local traffic was
driving, all their cars quit.
All their phones went dead.
>>NOORY: Just like
"Close Encounters
of the Third Kind," when
he was in the truck.
>>COSTA: Just like
"Close Encounters."
Everything went dead.
And people that
were reporting it
said they could almost
reach up and touch it.
It was about 12 or 15
feet off the ground.
It was that close.
And when it took off,
it elevated back up.
The pieces split.
The three pieces split,
and they all went off
in their own little direction.
All the cars started up and
the phones came back to life.
>>NOORY: Gosh.
What did the people say?
Were they baffled?
>>COSTA: Awestruck.
Shock and awe, as they say.
And I tried for a year to get
a mainstream newspaper up there
to write an article about it.
>>NOORY: Nothing, huh?
>>COSTA: And they wouldn't.
And I saved the article
till the end of 2013.
It was the very last article
I published for 2013.
>>NOORY: And what kind
of response did you have?
>>COSTA: Oh, I had
a lot of response.
Got a lot of mail about
it, even a few people
who said they'd seen it.
>>NOORY: Is it hard for you to
get UFO information these days,
or is it easy?
>>COSTA: In what regard?
>>NOORY: In terms of
investigating, to write.
>>COSTA: Usually, I just--
>>NOORY: The case studies.
>>COSTA: I don't do
case studies per se.
When I was writing articles--
that was the closest I got
to a case study--
I would get down into deep data
in the National UFO Reporting
Center since that's publicly
available information.
>>NOORY: Would you chase
down those stories?
>>COSTA: Sometimes.
Sometimes.
Now, I did have a number
of people write me.
And of course, I had a very
strict vetting process.
I got bagged once.
Someone bagged me with
a complete false thing.
It looked too good.
>>NOORY: Well, it happens.
>>COSTA: It happens.
But after that, I had a very,
very tight vetting process.
What I did, though, I
did make a lot of friends
with the experiencer community,
the abductee experiencer
community.
And I had a lot of
people sit down with me
over a burger and a cup
of coffee someplace,
and share some very
interesting stuff.
And all of it, when
you look back now,
it's all very consistent
with the stuff
that the Dr. Edgar
Mitchell Foundation
folks did, Ray Hernandez
and all those guys.
>>NOORY: Noetic sciences
and stuff like that.
>>COSTA: All of that stuff is
very consistent with everything
that they wrote about later.
>>NOORY: What have
you concluded,
Cheryl, about what
this all is all about?
>>COSTA: OK, I've got
several conclusions.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>COSTA: I lived in a
monastery for seven years.
>>NOORY: You did?
>>COSTA: Yeah.
While I was working at Lockheed
Martin, I lived in a monastery.
It's where I lived,
and I went and I
worked at Lockheed Martin.
>>NOORY: That's unusual.
>>COSTA: Dressed like
the Dalai Lama every day
at corporate headquarters.
And pushed their diversity
policies to the bleeding edge.
But the deal was I've always
had this esoteric view.
And I see two ends of it.
Whenever someone
sees a genuine UFO
and it profoundly changes them,
you hear this time after time
after time.
>>NOORY: They're never
the same, are they?
>>COSTA: They're
never quite the same.
And a couple of us have
come to the conclusion
that the volume of
UFOs that we have that
are of the quality that's
not an airplane, that's
something else kind of thing,
and it changes people--
>>NOORY: Still might be ours.
>>COSTA: Still might be ours.
>>NOORY: Still, you've
got to weigh that.
>>COSTA: Still
might be ours, and I
can talk to that in a minute.
But that kind of an effect where
it changes you a little bit,
almost like a
spiritual experience,
it's increasing the elasticity
of their reality view.
And this is a good thing.
Because I think for people
to be able to accept ET,
they're going to have to
have a wider view of reality
to appreciate it.
>>NOORY: We've got some
graphs that you brought us
from reports from 2001 to 2018?
>>COSTA: '18, yes.
>>NOORY: Let's take
a look at them.
And you can explain
what we're looking at.
>>COSTA: All righty.
>>NOORY: Go ahead.
>>COSTA: This is
from 2001 to 2018.
The reason we started
with 2001-- people ask me,
why didn't you go back 40 years?
Much before 2001, the citing
numbers were very, very tiny.
What you see with the apparent
increase the first eight
years there, or first
five years, six years,
that is an artifact
of reporting.
More people were coming
onto broadband at that time,
and it was easier for people
to report the sightings.
>>NOORY: And up they went.
>>COSTA: And up they went.
Now, that first hump you
see from 2004 to about 2008,
you see that first hump of
three or four right there?
There's a six to seven-year
cycle with UFO sightings.
And then you see another hump
as it goes up real peaky.
>>NOORY: And then it
trails down again.
>>COSTA: It starts
trailing down again.
Now, it stops in 2018.
What we know now is
in 2019 MUFON numbers
started to tick up slightly.
And this year, National UFO
Reporting Center numbers
have taken off and are
the best year since 2014.
>>NOORY: They've exploded, yeah.
Peter tells me that he's
getting calls like crazy.
>>COSTA: His first quarter
was equivalent to 2014,
which was a peak year.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's look at our next graphic.
>>COSTA: They're back in spades.
They really are.
OK, now this is 2020.
The first three
months there you see
what the sightings look like.
Real good.
And there's a thing that we
learned by doing our data.
There are four things
that drive UFO sightings--
population, temperate weather,
leisure time, and hours
of darkness.
And a lot of people were
waiting with bated breath
to find out if the lockdown,
with this increased leisure
time, so to speak,
would impact it.
And it certainly did.
>>NOORY: It sure did.
>>COSTA: 1,000.
Now, there was a fall-off
during the startup.
But what we don't
have on this chart
is July numbers are
almost what May's are.
So this is really encouraging.
>>NOORY: Why would, though,
we have such a huge drop-off
from 1,050 reported sightings
down to 538, and then 284?
It's almost like they shut down.
>>COSTA: We don't know
what people were doing.
This is also a function
of human activity,
if people are
distracted, getting back
to work, that type of thing.
>>NOORY: All right.
Let's look at our next one.
>>COSTA: Now, this one I
just generated the other day.
>>NOORY: These are
all over the country.
>>COSTA: This is by city.
And this is 90 of the top cities
in the country of 20,692 cities
that we have UFOs reported.
>>NOORY: Do they
correlate, Cheryl,
with the population
of that city?
>>COSTA: To some degree, yes.
>>NOORY: So if you
have more people,
you have more sightings?
>>COSTA: There's the
population factor,
but you also see
things like, well,
the top city there was Phoenix.
>>NOORY: Which,
compared to New York,
doesn't have as many people.
>>COSTA: Exactly.
But it's a hot area, and
it's temperate weather,
that type of thing.
And also those people
say, well, there's
got to be a problem
with light pollution.
But Los Angeles County
has more sightings--
they're the number one
county in the country.
Of 3,200 counties, they're
the number one county
in the country.
They have more sightings
than 40 individual states.
And Maricopa County in
Phoenix has more sightings
than 36 individual states.
So there's something special
going on in both those places.
>>NOORY: You published a
UFO desk reference book.
>>COSTA: Yes.
>>NOORY: Tell me about that.
>>COSTA: We had gotten
to a point in 2015
where we had done an
analysis of New York State.
Again, it was my beat.
And my wife is the
scientist of the two of us.
She's got the science
degrees, research librarian,
National Academy of Science.
She was the head librarian
at the toxicology
library for the EPA.
Sharp lady.
And we were talking about maybe
doing some kind of a UFO book.
And she said, so
let's do some science.
So I had the analysis background
and the crunching background.
And of course, I've got
the arts and entertainment
degree, top hat and
the cane, so to speak.
So we started
crunching the data.
And we decided to do
the whole country.
We thought it might take a year.
Took us 18 months.
We didn't know
what we were doing.
Now, processes that we
developed to crunch the data,
and clean it up,
and to organize it,
what we did then in 18 months we
could probably do in two months
now because we know
better how do it.
>>NOORY: You've got it down
to a routine, don't you?
>>COSTA: So what
we wanted to do was
produce something that shows
the years, both for the country
and for each individual
state, the monthly patterns,
the weekday patterns.
There was a thing out there--
the late John Keel said,
"the Wednesday effect"
back in the '70s.
Well, he had a small
database to work with,
and it was mostly weighted
in the southwestern states.
And we found out that when we
did it for the whole United
States, Saturday is the
hot day for the sightings.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COSTA: Unless
you're in about 10--
>>NOORY: That's great
to know, though.
>>COSTA: --10 southern states,
it's Wednesday or Thursday.
And my interns-- they're
from down South--
they said, well, that's
Bible study night.
Leisure time.
People are outside, coming
home from Bible study.
>>NOORY: And what do they
think they're seeing, Cheryl?
>>COSTA: It can be anything.
The sighting shapes from
both reporting services--
you can report anything from an
unknown to a light in the sky--
>>NOORY: What do you
think they're seeing?
>>COSTA: --to some shape.
What do I think they are?
>>NOORY: What do you
think they're seeing?
You've looked at enough
cases in your career.
>>COSTA: OK.
Dr. Jacques Vallée says 80%
is noise, identifiables.
20% is real.
MUFON says 30% are real.
Cheryl and Linda have
come to our own conclusion
using other
approaches with data.
And we believe it's about 30%.
And Linda will tell
you in a heartbeat
it's the exotic shapes
that are the truth.
We did an experiment where we
eliminated in the database,
in a report, everything
that could be conventionally
associated with an aircraft,
like a cigar-shaped thing
or anything like that.
It could be a side
of an airplane.
We eliminated everything
that was unidentifiable,
and kept only the oddball
stuff-- the squares,
the circles, the ovals, the
diamonds, the triangles,
that type of thing,
and the things
that don't represent anything
in our aerodynamic collection.
And it came up to about 30%.
So we seem to think the
truth is in the shapes.
>>NOORY: How was your
reference book received?
>>COSTA: It was funny.
Field researchers loved
it because MUFON data was
about 20% to 30% of the data.
And Peter Davenport's data was
somewhere between 60% and 70%,
depending upon the state.
>>NOORY: And does
Peter's and MUFON's kind
of echo each other?
>>COSTA: No.
>>NOORY: They don't.
We found about less than a
percent, maybe less than 2%
seem to be duplicates.
But it was a 60-40
ratio for the most part.
And the problem that we ran into
was that field investigators
loved it because if a
guy was going to go out
to a county x to investigate
something, suddenly now,
instead of having to crawl
around in MUFON's CMS system
to find out how many previous
sightings they might have
had there, suddenly they've
got both databases there
in one convenient book.
And they loved it.
There was a lot of people in the
UFO community didn't like it.
They would look at and say,
oh, this is charts, graphs,
and tables and numbers.
Ew, boring.
But for the most
part, a lot of people
saw it as very unique research.
The "New York Times" looked
at it and said, my god,
somebody's doing some
primary research here.
>>NOORY: Well, they're
into this now, too.
>>COSTA: They wrote us up in
"Science Magazine" in 2017.
Ralph Blumenthal was the author.
He was one of the guys
with Leslie Kean who
wrote the article
in December of 2017,
revealing what the
Pentagon was up to.
So they were
already on the track
to be that paper record that was
going to help break this story.
>>NOORY: Well,
anything that, I think,
can be positive
news about ufology
that's published
by mainstream media
is important and critical.
So keep doing what you're doing.
My gosh.
>>COSTA: That was
the beauty of it.
And they're still working at it.
Look at the stories
that just came out.
One came out during the
lockdown that, oh, yeah,
confirming that the
2017 material was real.
And now they're telling us,
oh, the Navy intelligence
is handling it.
>>NOORY: And now there's going
to be a task force devoted
to studying this?
Now Kevin Randall tells
me-- great ufologist--
that he thinks it's just a ruse.
I think otherwise.
I think there's
something going on here.
I think they want to
tell us something.
They just don't know how.
>>COSTA: It's a secret that's
been kept for too long.
And almost everybody
agrees on this.
And there's been
a lot of pressure
from inside what you
might call the deep state
to share the knowledge of it.
>>NOORY: Why?
After all these years
of secrecy, why now?
>>COSTA: I think
we have a problem.
And the evidence
with the Navy being
buzzed the way they've been
buzzed the last 10, 15 years,
I think we might have a problem.
>>NOORY: What do
you mean by problem?
>>COSTA: Well, if the world
governments that are usually
dominated by the United States,
if we don't tell our people
what's going on--
>>NOORY: Somebody else is.
>>COSTA: --ET's going
to do it for us.
And I think that's
what's happening.
>>NOORY: Or Putin might.
Or somebody else, right?
>>COSTA: Exactly.
>>NOORY: And so we feel
like we're being rushed
to come out with some answers?
>>COSTA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You think
that's what it is?
>>COSTA: I think
that's what it is.
And the smart money
right now says
we might end up with
Congressional hearings
next year.
>>NOORY: Why do we
need a task force
when government probably has
known about this for 50 years?
>>COSTA: There was a
lot of compartmental--
you were in the Navy.
There's compartmentalization.
And sometimes the
left hand doesn't know
what the right hand's doing.
>>NOORY: A lot of times.
>>COSTA: OK, a lot
of times is right.
And that compartmentalization
has not helped things.
I had several conversations
with Lou D'Allesandro.
And he indicated that there were
actually people in the Pentagon
that was restricting the
material he was trying
to get up to Secretary Mattis.
>>NOORY: I believe that.
>>COSTA: And, again, there
was this idea of that sick,
spoiled, paint-it-with-UFO
brush and no one will pay any
attention to you.
>>NOORY: Are you
finding that you're
getting more media
attention than you did five,
10 years ago?
>>COSTA: I've had phone
calls in the past week
from people I never thought I
would get a phone call from.
Major, major outlets
calling me and talking to me
for 60 to 90 minutes,
and asking me
for other contacts
of lead researchers.
So something's
really percolating.
>>NOORY: What do
you think that is?
The interest?
>>COSTA: I think
the buzz is they
know it's going to be
a big deal next year.
Look, we've got
senators and congressmen
have been getting all the
classified briefings recently.
>>NOORY: And we've been
spending money doing it, too.
>>COSTA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Right?
>>COSTA: And the deal is
a lot of these congressmen
and senators are
positioning themselves
to be on the right
side of history,
so to speak, in my estimation.
I lived in DC for
almost 30 years,
so that's pretty
much the mindset.
Make sure you're where
the smart money is.
>>NOORY: In the
UFO desk reference
book, how many cases do
you think are in there?
>>COSTA: There's no cases.
>>NOORY: No cases at all?
>>COSTA: I've got 146,801
eyewitness accounts.
>>NOORY: Ah!
That's what you call "cases."
>>COSTA: Yes.
Eyewitness accounts.
But it's just data.
There's no write-ups about
any of the sightings.
>>NOORY: It's just what it is.
>>COSTA: It is what, when,
and where, what shape,
and correlating.
In the data, we do yearly
charts for every state.
We did top counties
for every state.
>>NOORY: Is there a
conclusion about the case?
>>COSTA: No.
No cases.
>>NOORY: Nothing.
>>COSTA: It's just purely the
data and where it took us.
And the version we're
coming out with next year,
which adds 2019 and
2020 to it, will
have a 20-year snapshot
of UFOs in the first part
of 21st century.
And we'll have shape
analysis in that one.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
Now, what percent do you think
are real cases or eyewitness
accounts?
>>COSTA: 30%.
>>NOORY: 30%.
All you need is one case.
>>COSTA: Well, let me--
>>NOORY: You know that.
Just one.
>>COSTA: Just one.
But let me give you one that
will give you a flavor for it.
Take that 30% we
were talking about.
Of the 146,800, 30%
would be about 44,000.
Divide that by 18 years.
That gives you about 2,500.
Divided that by 12 months.
That gives you about 216.
Assuming every state
is treated equally,
and the DC, divide
that 216 by 51.
>>NOORY: So you're getting
about four a state.
>>COSTA: Four a state.
Essentially one exotic
sighting every week in all 50
states for the last 18 years.
>>NOORY: That makes
it sound huge.
>>COSTA: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Doesn't it?
>>COSTA: Yes, it does.
But it's actually a
very tiny percentage.
>>NOORY: It's very
small percentage,
but it makes it big.
>>COSTA: That's still how big it
is, even when you take only 30%
of it.
>>NOORY: Do you love doing
what you're doing, Cheryl?
>>COSTA: Oh, it's a blast.
It really is.
>>NOORY: How do people
get ahold of you?
>>COSTA:
Blogger@cherylcosta.com.
>>NOORY: C-O-S-T-A.
>>COSTA: Cheryl with
a C, Costa with a C.
Blogger@cherylcosta.com.
>>NOORY: Do you have a website?
>>COSTA: No, I don't.
>>NOORY: You should.
My gosh, with all these
eyewitness accounts
you've looked at.
>>COSTA: Well, OK,
we do have a blog.
It's
www.cherylcosta.com/ufo/blog.
>>NOORY: What did all
this data convince you of?
That something is happening?
>>COSTA: Yes.
Yes.
>>NOORY: Without a
shadow of a doubt?
>>COSTA: Without a
shadow of a doubt.
There's a lot going on.
And as I did read
accounts people had--
because remember,
I was still writing
articles and everything--
again, it was a lot of
people waking up to it
who said I never
believed in this stuff
until the other night.
One good example.
There was a guy in
Auburn, New York.
Watched three balls of red
light fly over his house.
He--
>>NOORY: [SPACESHIP SOUND]
>>COSTA: And he was so excited.
He turned around to run in
the house to tell his wife,
and three more came over.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>COSTA: And he literally
said he fell on his butt
and just laid there,
looking at it.
>>NOORY: Watching it.
>>COSTA: And it's
sightings like that.
It just blows people away.
>>NOORY: How many
of these people
do you think are making it
up or a little imbalanced?
I hate to put it that way,
but there are some that are.
>>COSTA: Statistically,
we say maybe--
since we get such big numbers,
statistically, we usually
estimate somewhere
between 2% and 5%
might be a serious
error or bogus.
>>NOORY: Or just lying about it.
>>COSTA: We allow for that.
That's why we do that
30% off the top number
to show that we're willing to
edit some of this and say 70%
might not be any good, but
this 30% might be golden.
People are always asking me--
>>NOORY: You have
to do it that way.
>>COSTA: Well, sometimes
people will say, well,
how do you know some
of them are not real?
And I say, tell you what.
There's a lot of golden
needles in that haystack,
but we don't know which ones.
So statistically
we take that 30%.
And like I said,
Linda and I came down
to the exotic shapes of what
we should be looking at.
>>NOORY: We've got some more
graphs that you've sent us--
>>COSTA: Please, yes.
>>NOORY: --based
on specific times.
Let's take a look at these.
What is this now?
We're looking at UFO
sightings by month?
>>COSTA: Yes.
Now, what we learned
about months--
when we were putting
the book together,
Linda looked over the
terminal at me one day
beside getting all
the charts, and said,
did you notice that
the northern states
were peaking in the center
during July and August?
And if you move down into
the middle level states,
it starts flattening out.
And when you get down to
the deep South states,
it's like a statistical
picket fence.
>>NOORY: And it seems to
peak by the weather, which
means more people are
outside looking, right?
>>COSTA: Temperate
weather again, yes.
>>NOORY: Temperate weather.
And you can see it.
As it gets colder, it goes down.
>>COSTA: But when you get
up in the northern states,
the Great Lakes states
and New England states,
it peaks in July and August.
The New England states it's
a little higher in September
because people are out
there for leaf season.
But then it falls off.
And the statistical number
you have on the ends--
January, February,
March, April, and then
from about October, November,
December-- those numbers
are relatively small
in most states.
Those are the dog
walkers and smokers.
They're out year in,
year out, every day.
They know the lay of the land.
UFO investigators
from MUFON tend
to look at smokers and dog
walkers as reliable observers
because they know the lay
of their neighborhood.
>>NOORY: Do you get
a lot of reports
of people who are walking
their dogs witnessing UFOs?
>>COSTA: Yes.
In fact, a number of
field investigators
told me when they look at a
month's worth of sightings,
they search the text
file on smoke and dog.
>>NOORY: Let's look at the
next graphic you sent us.
>>COSTA: Now, this is
by day of the week.
>>NOORY: By day of the week.
Now, this is unusual.
>>COSTA: Saturday.
And of course, I had people
like talk show hosts would
get on there and say to me,
well, Saturday night, yeah,
people get drunk and
everything, and drugs.
People who are drunk and
drugged don't generally
fill out UFO sighting reports.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COSTA: It's like filling
out a credit application.
It's nasty.
>>NOORY: I would simply
say that there's more
people outside on the weekends.
>>COSTA: Thank you.
That's exactly it.
Now, there are some states
it varies a little bit.
All the states have
a peak day, depending
upon what state you're in.
>>NOORY: Is this an
average of the states?
>>COSTA: This is all
the states together.
But one thing we did discover.
Monday night is
never a peak day.
Monday is never a peak day.
Monday Night Football.
Nobody's outside.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Well, there's no
more football this year.
>>COSTA: Oh.
>>NOORY: But that's intriguing.
OK, let's look at the other one.
>>COSTA: But we also
dispelled the John Keel thing
that Wednesday was the hot day.
Now, this one here is not
in the desk reference,
but it's going to
be in the next one.
We had to build a special
algorithm to do this.
>>NOORY: This is a huge spike.
>>COSTA: This is hours
of the day, 24 hours.
68% to 74% of the sightings
happen from 5 o'clock at night
to about 11:30.
>>NOORY: Nighttime.
>>COSTA: Nighttime.
Between 8:30 and 10:30 is
the peak, as you can tell.
>>NOORY: Is that expected?
>>COSTA: No.
It wasn't expected.
And then you'll notice
how it falls off.
There's a bump about 1
o'clock in the morning,
and then another bump around
5 or 6 o'clock in the morning.
That's people starting to go
to work, that type of thing.
Notice morning drives, 7 or
8 o'clock in the morning,
it dips down.
But it doesn't
really pick up again
until people are starting
to get off of work.
>>NOORY: That looks like
my radio audience ratings.
>>COSTA: There you go.
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>COSTA: Now, something we
found out with these bumps--
if you did this chart just
for Nevada, particularly
Clark County, there's
a bump at 1 o'clock,
2 o'clock, and 4 o'clock, when
the clubs and casinos let out.
If you go to Arkansas,
there's a bump
at 3 o'clock and 5 o'clock.
And the farmers
all came up to me
at the Arkansas UFO
Conference and said,
we're chicken farmers.
That's when we prep our
birds to go to market,
3 o'clock in the morning.
>>NOORY: Was that
the Ozark UFO thing?
>>COSTA: Yes.
>>NOORY: Good people there.
>>COSTA: Great people.
>>NOORY: Let's look
at our last graphic.
>>COSTA: Now, this is this year.
The blue ones are 2014.
The orange ones are 2020.
And you can see this
is the best year we've
had since 2014 by comparison.
It's an amazing year.
2020 is a bumper year.
>>NOORY: And what does
this have to do with COVID?
>>COSTA: Well, look at April.
Look at April.
Again, that 1,000 thing.
>>NOORY: Yeah, when it
started peaking there.
>>COSTA: And March was
already starting to peak.
>>NOORY: But then it goes down.
>>COSTA: Well, again, we don't
understand why it went down,
other than it may have been
just the fact that people were
starting to focus on
getting back to work
and things like that.
That's what we figure happened.
>>NOORY: Or maybe the UFOs
actually didn't show up.
Is that possible?
>>COSTA: That's possible.
Now, there's one other
thing it could be.
What if some of those ones
that people were seeing
were misidentified
commercial aircraft?
And suddenly we're not
flying during the peak--
>>NOORY: We're not
flying that much.
That's right.
>>COSTA: We're not
flying that much.
But there were huge amounts of
sightings right after 9/11 too.
And we were shut down for what?
10 days?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
Well, maybe they wanted
to check in on us.
>>COSTA: Perhaps.
But my attitude on it is that
it never ceases to surprise me.
Something surprises
me all the time.
>>NOORY: What does this
data tell you overall,
when you look at it
as a complete picture?
>>COSTA: If I ever had
any doubt, I don't now.
>>NOORY: Of?
>>COSTA: We have a presence
not from around here.
We have an off-world
presence with us.
And that's the bottom
line conclusion.
When I saw my first
sighting, I was watching it.
It was like a silver
ball in the sky.
I was 12 years old.
And I got up in the back
window of our Chevy Impala
as my father turned to
car to go towards home.
And I was watching that thing.
>>NOORY: Did he see it too?
>>COSTA: He saw it.
My mother saw it.
They pointed it out
to me and told me
it might be a weather balloon.
It might be something
NASA's doing.
Might be people
from another world,
my mother explained to me.
And so I crawled up in the
back window of that car.
And I was watching that
little silver ball out there
and wondering, who are you guys?
Who are you guys?
And when it decided to leave,
it was [SNAPS] like that.
Changes you.
>>NOORY: Did you ever go outside
on a night, look into the sky,
and will for them to show up?
>>COSTA: Yes.
>>NOORY: I used to do that
as a kid all the time.
>>COSTA: Yes.
We had a clairvoyant
kid in my high school.
And he used to be
able to call them.
>>NOORY: Did they show up?
>>COSTA: Yeah, they did.
>>NOORY: That's pretty good.
>>COSTA: Flying
at treetop level.
He did that once.
We were all on a front porch,
about sunset type of thing.
He says, I can call them.
And we all laughed
and everything.
And he says, watch.
And he went down and did
this meditation thing.
And he says, there.
They're going to come.
And we all went, yeah, yeah, OK.
And we all went home.
And the next morning,
the newspaper
reported that there
were sightings 10 or 11
o'clock that night at treetop
level in our neighborhood.
>>NOORY: What do you
recommend, Cheryl, people
do if they're still
skittish of filing reports?
>>COSTA: Well, look.
National UFO Reporting
Center, even MUFON, you
don't have to leave your name.
You don't have to.
You can log the report and
give all the information.
You don't have to
put your name if you
want to be totally anonymous.
>>NOORY: Yeah, they'll
take the information.
>>COSTA: They'll
It's all online.
You push the button to
send, and it'll take it.
>>NOORY: It's got
more credibility
if you leave your name.
>>COSTA: They do like to talk
to you if it's something that
really piques their interest.
I know National UFO Reporting
Center, Pete Davenport,
they do like to reach out
and ask a few questions now
and then.
They've had people give
them additional information.
But there are people who
are really, really concerned
about being painted
with that stigma brush
and don't want the
notoriety of it.
>>NOORY: Are we still
getting eyewitness accounts
from pilots and
people like that?
>>COSTA: Yeah, all the time.
>>NOORY: Those
are great reports.
>>COSTA: All the time
they're getting them.
And Lou D'Allesandro told
me for the most part,
they're not loitering
around our stateside bases.
They're loitering around where
our advanced technology is,
and that's usually
in the fleets.
>>NOORY: When the late astronaut
Edgar Mitchell, Apollo 14,
told me we're being visited,
that's all I needed.
I've always been looking at
this since I was a teenager.
But when Edgar Mitchell said,
George, we're being visited,
I went, my God!
This was an astronaut!
He was on the moon!
And he's telling me
we're being visited?
So then I asked him.
Edgar, did you see anything?
No, I never have.
Well, how do you know then?
Because I'm told by people
higher up in government
that we're being visited,
and I believe them.
That's exactly what
he told me, Cheryl.
>>COSTA: A very popular remote
viewing target happens to be--
again, these cards
are done anonymously
for remote viewing class,
that type of thing--
is visit the alien base on
the back side of the moon.
>>NOORY: Yep.
Ingo Swann did that.
>>COSTA: Yes.
And I've had six classes of
remote viewers for the last 20
years, and they've
all visited there.
And the first
impression they have
when they come
out of the trance,
so to speak, of
working it, they say,
boy, whoever those folks were,
they didn't want us there.
That is a very common remark.
>>NOORY: Maybe that's
why we never went back.
>>COSTA: That seems to
lend credence to why
we didn't go back.
>>NOORY: What's the next
project for you, Cheryl?
>>COSTA: The "2021 UFO Sightings
Desk Reference, Enhanced."
>>NOORY: You're going
to do that again.
OK.
>>COSTA: We're going to do that.
Plus we're coming out
with a five-book series
on shape analysis, doing it
by the triangles, boomerangs,
and diamonds, the circles,
the balls, that kind of thing.
>>NOORY: The size also as well?
Some are bigger than smaller?
>>COSTA: No, we're not
worried about size.
We're worried about the
configurations and the shapes.
Five different sets
of configurations.
And we're going to
have a separate book
on each one of them.
And we're going to be able to
drill right down to the county
level for every
single one of them.
>>NOORY: Fascinating work.
Thank you.
>>COSTA: It's fun.
>>NOORY: Good to have
you on "Beyond Belief."
>>COSTA: Thank you.
>>NOORY: Well,
there you have it.
A true investigator
who's giving us
great information about UFOs.
And as she said, 30% of
the eyewitness accounts
are pretty darn credible.
Thanks for watching
"Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]